

NAME:
Circular Sustainability in Social and Ecological Networks: Acronym: CISNE

ALTERNATIVES:
Circular Economy in Ecological Networks: Acronym: CIRNEXT
Circular Economy for sustainable society and ecosystems: Acronym: CIRES

GENERAL TITLE: Symbiosis along networks of circular economy clusters 

QUESTIONS:
What we wanna build?
How we wanna build it?
Why?
Where are the key symbiosis of what we wanna build? 
Are there symbiosis within and between sectors at the local and regional scale?
Can we draw a symbiosis network at the local and regional scale? 
Can we draw a flow-material symbiosis network with all the inputs-process-outputs?

EXAMPLES
https://cireco.fi/en/home/
https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en
https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/international-strategies/sustainable-development-goals_en

FEATURES
Life cycle: Energy, material and information 
Reproducible digital repository 
Decentralized public blockchain tracking production life cycle

GOALS
Aim:SDGs
Innovation:Min-max goals
Origin:Clean materials
Resource conservation:Min raw and max recycled material
Design:Long term vision 
Geography:Promote Local-Regional sustainable development
Emisions: Zero-gases-emissions

ABSTRACT:
Circular economy is currently the main response to min raw material, GHG emissions, pollution, waste generation, natural capital and biodiversity loss. Circularity is, however, embedded in symbiosis interactions among many local and regional partners, like bacterial consortia, i.e., a network of interacting bacteria with functional properties like nutrient recycling. Yet, there is a gap in sustainability when connecting circular economy to industrial symbiosis networks to reach the min-max sustainability development goals. To build long term innovation following circular economy principles we also would need to identify key symbiosis partners at the local and regional scales to maximize the recovery and recycling of energy, material and information for any product and technology being envisioned. In this project we aim to further develop the connection between circular economy and industrial symbiosis networks to gain traction on transparent life cycle production (i.e., bicycles, cargos, and beyond), social justice ensuring environmental sustainability and decentralized public reproducible digital repository aiming to track the min-max sustainability development goals in a general and reproducible framework. 

