INFO
https://www.kmu.admin.ch/kmu/en/home/concrete-know-how/setting-up-sme/les-differentes-formes-juridiques/limited-partnership.html

STATUTES
Limited Partnership statutes :: company agreement 

 The Swiss Code of Obligations distinguishes two types of partnerships: the general partnership and the limited partnership. Partnerships in Switzerland must be formed by at least two individuals conducting business operations under a joint company. Compared to other types of Swiss companies, partnerships may not have legal entities as partners. Swiss partnerships are considered legal entities and must be registered with the Companies Register if carrying out business activities.
What are the requirements for setting up a general partnership in Switzerland?
General partnerships in Switzerland (Kollektivgesellschaft) are usually employed when carrying out small businesses. The formation of a partnership in Switzerland consists in signing the articles of partnership.  The general partnership’s name consists of the family name of at least one of the partners and the suffix indicating the relation between the two founding members. The Swiss general partnership may also add the business activity to its corporate name. There are no minimum share capital requirements for Swiss general partnerships. When it comes to the liability of the founding member, all partners will be held individually and jointly responsible for the general partnership’s debts and obligations. A Swiss general partnership may extend its business activities and bring more partners or may change its legal status.


Company agreement doc

    Company Name of your wish (ending with “GmbH”)
    
    Passport color scan copy (director(s), shareholder(s)
    
    Proof of residence (phone bill, electricity bill) not older than 3 months
    
    Bank reference letter or, 3-month bank statement
    
    Nature of business
    
    Business plan
    
    Details of the owner of the company – their names, address, and other relevant details
    
    A draft of the Articles of Association




-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Statutes of a Limited Liability Company – an example

A limited liability company is a corporate identity in which a certain number of persons or commercial companies take a share in. As the name suggests, the primary characteristic of the LLC is the liability of the company, which is limited to its assets and therefore excludes its members from liability. Due to the Swiss Code of Obligations, all LLCs must have statutes at their disposal. When forming at LLC, the incorporators must declare the legal form as well as the statutes and the company’s bodies in a documented legal act.

    Name, domicile and purpose
    Capital
    Shares (stock ledger, transfer, special form of purchase, usufruct, lien)
    Rights and obligations of the shareholders (principles of loyalty and non-competition clause, procedures for the pricing and reimbursement of pre-emption rights, notification of annual report)
    Organisation of company (meeting of shareholders (duties, convocation, resolution under relieved conditions, chairmanship and protocol, representation, voting power, resolutions), executive board (election and dismissal of the directors, tasks, organisation, due diligence and principles of loyalty, resolutions, representation), external auditors (audit, specifications regarding external auditors)
    Accounting (financial year, bookkeeping, reserves and appropriation of profits)
    Discharge
    Dissolution and liquidation
    Communiques and publications  
    Non-cash contributions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    


